# World_Weather_Analysis

## Purpose
The purpose of this repository was to create a vacation planning beta app that uses OpenWeatherMap's API and Google's Map API to retrieve important weather information in cities of interest. First, 2,000 random latitude and longitude coordinates are generated and then the nearest cities to those coordinates are pulled. Using OpenWeatherMap's API, the coordinates for those cities is retrieved along with the maximum temperature, percent humidity, percent cloudiness, wind speed, adn the weather description. A dataframe depicting this information was created for easier readibility. Next, input statements were created to prompt the user to enter in their temperature preferences for their ideal vacation location. Once a numeric temperature input is given, the dataframe was filtered to reflect only generated cities that matched the given temperature preferences. All rows that contained empty values were dropped. A new dataframe was created to add a column showing nearby hotel names after conducting a hotel search. A for loop was used to find the nearest hotel for each city. If a hotel was unable to be found, then it was skipped and the loop continued. Next, using Google's Map API, an interactive map figure was created with marker indicators to show locations of the hotels in each city along with all other previous information, including the hotel name, city name, country code, and a brief weather description. This will be displayed in a pop-up fashion for each marker that is clicked.

Finally, four cities were chosen in Mexico that a customer might want to visit based on the temperature preferences. Based on the availability of the results, the cities chosen were all relatively in the same proximity in terms of the country. The four cities included a city that served as the beginning and the end point of the travel route and three other cities as separate stops in between. Separate dataframes were created for each city on the travel route. A directions layer map figure was created from this to the visualize the travel map. The four dataframes were then concatenated into one dataframe. Lastly, another map figure was created to pinpoint the locations again. This time, this figure was also interactive with markers. Clicking on each marker will supply the same information as previously configured.
